doc/reference/cli.md, before:

---
displayed_sidebar: reference
sidebar_position: 2
title: "CLI"
---

# CLI Reference

Angos command-line interface.

## Synopsis

```
angos [-c <config>] <command> [<args>]
```

## Global Options

| Option                | Description                                         |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `-c, --config <path>` | Path to configuration file (default: `config.toml`) |
| `--help, help`        | Display usage information                           |

---

## Commands

### server

Run the registry HTTP server.

```bash
angos server
angos -c /etc/registry/config.toml server
```

The server starts listening on the configured `bind_address` and `port`. It handles:
- OCI Distribution API requests
- Extension API endpoints
- Web UI (if enabled)
- Health and metrics endpoints

**Environment Variables:**

| Variable   | Description                                                       |
|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `RUST_LOG` | Log level filter (e.g., `info`, `debug`, `angos=debug`) |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Run with info logging
RUST_LOG=info angos server

# Run with debug logging for specific module
RUST_LOG=angos::registry=debug angos server

# Run with custom config
angos -c production.toml server
```

---

### scrub

Check storage for inconsistencies and perform maintenance tasks.

```bash
angos scrub [options]
```

The scrub command performs storage maintenance and integrity checks. You must specify which checks to run using the flags below. Note that garbage collection happens online during normal server operation.

**Options:**

| Option                    | Short  | Description                                                                |
|---------------------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--dry-run`               | `-d`   | Preview what would be removed without making changes                       |
| `--uploads <duration>`    | `-u`   | Check for incomplete uploads older than duration (e.g., `1h`, `30m`, `2d`) |
| `--multipart <duration>`  | `-p`   | Cleanup orphan S3 multipart uploads older than duration (S3 only)          |
| `--tags`                  | `-t`   | Check for invalid tag digests                                              |
| `--manifests`             | `-m`   | Check for manifest inconsistencies                                         |
| `--blobs`                 | `-b`   | Check for blob inconsistencies and corruption                              |
| `--retention`             | `-r`   | Enforce retention policies                                                 |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Preview all maintenance operations
angos scrub -d -t -m -b -r

# Run full storage integrity check
angos scrub -t -m -b -r

# Enforce only retention policies
angos scrub --retention

# Check blob storage integrity
angos scrub --blobs

# Remove incomplete uploads older than 1 hour
angos scrub --uploads 1h

# Cleanup orphan S3 multipart uploads older than 24 hours
angos scrub --multipart 24h

# Preview retention policy enforcement
angos scrub --retention --dry-run

# Run with verbose logging
RUST_LOG=info angos scrub -t -m -b -r
```

**Scheduling:**

Run scrub as a scheduled task for regular maintenance:

```bash
# Cron example (daily at 3 AM) - full maintenance
0 3 * * * /usr/bin/angos -c /etc/registry/config.toml scrub -t -m -b -r
```

```yaml
# Kubernetes CronJob
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: CronJob
metadata:
  name: registry-maintenance
spec:
  schedule: "0 3 * * *"
  jobTemplate:
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: scrub
            image: ghcr.io/project-angos/angos:latest
            args: ["-c", "/config/config.toml", "scrub", "-t", "-m", "-b", "-r"]
          restartPolicy: OnFailure
```

---

### argon

Generate Argon2 password hashes for basic authentication.

```bash
angos argon
```

Interactive command that prompts for a password and outputs the Argon2 hash. Use this hash in the `auth.identity.<name>.password` configuration.

**Example:**

```bash
$ angos argon
Input Password: ********
$argon2id$v=19$m=19456,t=2,p=1$randomsalt$hashvalue
```

Then use in configuration:

```toml
[auth.identity.alice]
username = "alice"
password = "$argon2id$v=19$m=19456,t=2,p=1$randomsalt$hashvalue"
```

---

## Exit Codes

| Code  | Description                                   |
|-------|-----------------------------------------------|
| 0     | Success                                       |
| 1     | General error (invalid config, runtime error) |

---

## Logging

Angos uses the `RUST_LOG` environment variable for log configuration.

**Log Levels:**
- `error` - Errors only
- `warn` - Warnings and errors
- `info` - Informational messages (recommended for production)
- `debug` - Detailed debugging information
- `trace` - Very verbose tracing

Commit message:

feat: scrub checker to fix `referenced_by` field for existing links

doc/reference/cli.md, after:

---
displayed_sidebar: reference
sidebar_position: 2
title: "CLI"
---

# CLI Reference

Angos command-line interface.

## Synopsis

```
angos [-c <config>] <command> [<args>]
```

## Global Options

| Option                | Description                                         |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `-c, --config <path>` | Path to configuration file (default: `config.toml`) |
| `--help, help`        | Display usage information                           |

---

## Commands

### server

Run the registry HTTP server.

```bash
angos server
angos -c /etc/registry/config.toml server
```

The server starts listening on the configured `bind_address` and `port`. It handles:
- OCI Distribution API requests
- Extension API endpoints
- Web UI (if enabled)
- Health and metrics endpoints

**Environment Variables:**

| Variable   | Description                                                       |
|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `RUST_LOG` | Log level filter (e.g., `info`, `debug`, `angos=debug`) |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Run with info logging
RUST_LOG=info angos server

# Run with debug logging for specific module
RUST_LOG=angos::registry=debug angos server

# Run with custom config
angos -c production.toml server
```

---

### scrub

Check storage for inconsistencies and perform maintenance tasks.

```bash
angos scrub [options]
```

The scrub command performs storage maintenance and integrity checks. You must specify which checks to run using the flags below. Note that garbage collection happens online during normal server operation.

**Options:**

| Option                    | Short  | Description                                                                |
|---------------------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--dry-run`               | `-d`   | Preview what would be removed without making changes                       |
| `--uploads <duration>`    | `-u`   | Check for incomplete uploads older than duration (e.g., `1h`, `30m`, `2d`) |
| `--multipart <duration>`  | `-p`   | Cleanup orphan S3 multipart uploads older than duration (S3 only)          |
| `--tags`                  | `-t`   | Check for invalid tag digests                                              |
| `--manifests`             | `-m`   | Check for manifest inconsistencies                                         |
| `--blobs`                 | `-b`   | Check for blob inconsistencies and corruption                              |
| `--retention`             | `-r`   | Enforce retention policies                                                 |
| `--referenced-by`         | `-x`   | Fix referenced_by field for existing links (migration/repair)             |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Preview all maintenance operations
angos scrub -d -t -m -b -r

# Run full storage integrity check
angos scrub -t -m -b -r

# Enforce only retention policies
angos scrub --retention

# Check blob storage integrity
angos scrub --blobs

# Remove incomplete uploads older than 1 hour
angos scrub --uploads 1h

# Cleanup orphan S3 multipart uploads older than 24 hours
angos scrub --multipart 24h

# Preview retention policy enforcement
angos scrub --retention --dry-run

# Run with verbose logging
RUST_LOG=info angos scrub -t -m -b -r
```

**Scheduling:**

Run scrub as a scheduled task for regular maintenance:

```bash
# Cron example (daily at 3 AM) - full maintenance
0 3 * * * /usr/bin/angos -c /etc/registry/config.toml scrub -t -m -b -r
```

```yaml
# Kubernetes CronJob
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: CronJob
metadata:
  name: registry-maintenance
spec:
  schedule: "0 3 * * *"
  jobTemplate:
    spec:
      template:
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: scrub
            image: ghcr.io/project-angos/angos:latest
            args: ["-c", "/config/config.toml", "scrub", "-t", "-m", "-b", "-r"]
          restartPolicy: OnFailure
```

---

### argon

Generate Argon2 password hashes for basic authentication.

```bash
angos argon
```

Interactive command that prompts for a password and outputs the Argon2 hash. Use this hash in the `auth.identity.<name>.password` configuration.

**Example:**

```bash
$ angos argon
Input Password: ********
$argon2id$v=19$m=19456,t=2,p=1$randomsalt$hashvalue
```

Then use in configuration:

```toml
[auth.identity.alice]
username = "alice"
password = "$argon2id$v=19$m=19456,t=2,p=1$randomsalt$hashvalue"
```

---

## Exit Codes

| Code  | Description                                   |
|-------|-----------------------------------------------|
| 0     | Success                                       |
| 1     | General error (invalid config, runtime error) |

---

## Logging

Angos uses the `RUST_LOG` environment variable for log configuration.

**Log Levels:**
- `error` - Errors only
- `warn` - Warnings and errors
- `info` - Informational messages (recommended for production)
- `debug` - Detailed debugging information
- `trace` - Very verbose tracing
